docs/develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/01_dids/01_light_did_creation.md, before:

---
id: light-did-creation
title: Create a Light DID
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import LightDidSimple from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/core_features/did/01_light_did_simple.ts';
import LightDidComplete from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/core_features/did/02_light_did_complete.ts';

The creation of a light DID require a keystore instance that conforms to the [Keystore interface](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sdk-js/blob/master/packages/types/src/Keystore.ts).
For the sake of ease of use, the SDK provides a [demo keystore](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sdk-js/blob/master/packages/did/src/DemoKeystore/DemoKeystore.ts) which can be used to generate key pairs that are kept in memory and disappear at the end of the program execution.

:::warning
Using the demo keystore in production is highly discouraged as all the keys are kept in the memory and easily retrievable by malicious actors.
:::

The following is an example of how to create a light DID after creating an instance of the demo keystore.

<CodeBlock className="language-ts">
  {LightDidSimple}
</CodeBlock>

For cases in which also an encryption key and some service endpoints need to be added to a light DID:

<CodeBlock className="language-ts">
  {LightDidComplete}
</CodeBlock>

:::info
In KILT, light DIDs are meant to be used in one of two cases:

1. As *ephemeral, one-time identifiers* when establishing new communication channels with untrusted parties.
2. As an *entrypoint into the KILT ecosystem*, i.e., to obtain the first Credentials and getting acquainted with KILT.

As such, light DIDs do not support updates of any sort, but they retain the same identifier until they are upgraded to full DIDs.
They are not supposed to be used in complex and/or high-security use cases.
For those, a full DID should be used.
You can visit the [next section](./02_full_did_creation.md) to see how to create and manage full DIDs.
:::

Commit message:

chore: update doc texts to match the current SDK dev version (#142)
* Adjust the concepts sections

* Last refinements

* Address Kilt.init() mismatch

* Fix compilation issue

* Temporarily remove example generation from build process

* Fix concurrency issue by re-trying submission

* Style...

* Add timeout before retrying submission

* Change timeout duration to be a block duration

* Add same re-try mechanism to workshop as well

docs/develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/01_dids/01_light_did_creation.md, after:

---
id: light-did-creation
title: Create a Light DID
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import LightDidSimple from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/core_features/did/01_light_did_simple.ts';
import LightDidComplete from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/core_features/did/02_light_did_complete.ts';

The creation of a light DID requires the generation of some keying material for keys that are to be used for authentication, encryption, attestation, or delegation.
For the sake of ease of use, the example snippets below show how to use a Keyring, provided also by the `@polkadot/api` library, to generate key pairs that are kept in memory and disappear at the end of the program execution, unless saved to some persistent storage.

:::warning
Using the default keyring in production is highly discouraged as all the keys are kept in the memory and easily retrievable by malicious actors.
:::

The following is an example of how to create a light DID after creating an instance of the demo keyring.

<CodeBlock className="language-ts">
  {LightDidSimple}
</CodeBlock>

For cases in which also an encryption key and some service endpoints need to be added to a light DID:

<CodeBlock className="language-ts">
  {LightDidComplete}
</CodeBlock>

:::info
In KILT, light DIDs are meant to be used in one of two cases:

1. As *ephemeral, one-time identifiers* when establishing new communication channels with untrusted parties.
2. As an *entrypoint into the KILT ecosystem*, i.e., to obtain the first Credentials and getting acquainted with KILT.

As such, light DIDs do not support updates of any sort, but they retain the same identifier until they are upgraded to full DIDs.
They are not supposed to be used in complex and/or high-security use cases.
For those, a full DID should be used.
You can visit the [next section](./02_full_did_creation.md) to see how to create and manage full DIDs.
:::
