docs/develop/01_sdk/05_troubleshoot.md, before:

---
id: troubleshoot-sdk
title: Troubleshoot
---

Solutions and workarounds for common or unresolved issues.

## Webpack < 5 used to include polyfills

```
ERROR in ./node_modules/cbor/lib/commented.js 3:15-32
Module not found: Error: Can't resolve 'stream' in 'node_modules/cbor/lib'

BREAKING CHANGE: webpack < 5 used to include polyfills for node.js core modules by default.
This is no longer the case.
Verify if you need this module and configure a polyfill for it.
```

### Solution

The problem occurs because a few crypto libraries inside the SDK require polyfills for node.js functions.
You might see the above error, when using the KILT SDK inside a `create-react-app`.
There are two options to solve this.

1. Eject your create react app and configure the polyfills manually in your webpack config.
2. Use ViteJS [with our recommended configuration](./04_integrate/04_vitejs.md)

## `redeclaration of import Buffer`

```
Uncaught SyntaxError: redeclaration of import Buffer
```

### Solution

You might use `@polkadot/react-identicon` to display an identicon or another library that conflict with the polyfill provided by our ViteJS configuration.
There is currently no better solution but to remove the dependency and try to use an alternative.

For `@polkadot/react-identicon`, we suggest to use `@polkadot/ui-shared` and implement your own react identicon.
You can take inspiration from the [Stakeboard](https://github.com/BTE-Trusted-Entity/stakeboard/blob/8a9713f786a05487daa4bfc394c95b60820c5147/src/components/Identicon/Identicon.tsx).

Commit message:

feat: polyfills are no longer required (#257)
* docs: update browser integration docs
* docs: update troubleshoot
* docs: update index
* docs: remove viteJS example

Co-authored-by: Luke Grunau <lukegrunau@gmail.com>

docs/develop/01_sdk/05_troubleshoot.md, after:

---
id: troubleshoot-sdk
title: Troubleshoot
---

Solutions and workarounds for common or unresolved issues.

## Webpack < 5 used to include polyfills

```
ERROR in ./node_modules/cbor/lib/commented.js 3:15-32
Module not found: Error: Can't resolve 'stream' in 'node_modules/cbor/lib'

BREAKING CHANGE: webpack < 5 used to include polyfills for node.js core modules by default.
This is no longer the case.
Verify if you need this module and configure a polyfill for it.
```

### Solution

The problem occurs because one of the dependecies you are using in your project (or used by a library you depend on) relies on NodeJS built-ins which are not available in a browser context.
You should aim to identify and replace these dependencies with browser-compatible alternatives.

You might see the above error when using older versions of the KILT SDK with `create-react-app`. Make sure that you are using `@kiltprotocol/sdk-js` version 0.33.0 and above, which work in a browser context out-of-the-box.

If the affected dependencies cannot be removed or replaced, you may need to look into setting up polyfills for the required NodeJS built-ins.

## `redeclaration of import Buffer`

```
Uncaught SyntaxError: redeclaration of import Buffer
```

### Solution

Your project might be using polyfills for the NodeJS built-in `Buffer`, which can cause conflicts with some polkadot-js libraries such as `@polkadot/react-identicon`. You can try upgrading the SDK and its dependencies to their latest versions. It's possible that upgrading will allow you to drop these polyfills from your configuration.
