docs/sdk/1-workshop/00-welcome.md, before:

---
id: welcome
title: 👋🏻 Welcome
---

SDK version **0.21.0**.

:::info What you can expect

📦 Topics: <a href="https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sdk-js">KILT SDK</a> essentials, basic credential workflow. This includes creating a CTYPE and a claim; attesting a claim; and finally verifying the credential.

⏳ Duration: 15-45 minutes.

🤓 Prerequisites: basic JavaScript or TypeScript knowledge.

❓ Questions? Join our <a href="https://discord.gg/hX4pc8rdHS">developer community channel</a>!

:::

**Welcome, curious mind!**

In this tutorial, you will:

✔ Get familiar with the essential concepts in KILT: identities, CTYPEs, claims, credentials and more.

✔ Use the KILT SDK to implement the basic flow of a KILT claim, from creation until verification. You'll create a claim as a <span class="label-role claimer">claimer</span>, attest it as an <span class="label-role attester">attester</span> and verify it as a <span class="label-role verifier">verifier</span>.

✔ Use the KILT SDK to write onto and read from the KILT blockchain.

Ready? Let's go!

👉 [Step 0: Setup](./01-setup.md)

Commit message:

feat: updating the faucet information and did workshop

docs/sdk/1-workshop/00-welcome.md, after:

---
id: welcome
title: 👋🏻 Welcome
---

SDK version **0.21.0**.

:::info What you can expect

📦 Topics: <a href="https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sdk-js">KILT SDK</a> essentials, basic credential workflow. This includes creating a CTYPE and a claim; attesting a claim; and finally verifying the credential.

⏳ Duration: 15-45 minutes.

🤓 Prerequisites: basic JavaScript or TypeScript knowledge.

❓ Questions? Join our <a href="https://discord.gg/hX4pc8rdHS">developer community channel</a>!

:::

**Welcome, curious mind!**

In this tutorial, you will:

✔ Get familiar with the essential concepts in KILT: identities, CTYPEs, claims, credentials and more.

✔ Use the KILT SDK to implement the basic flow of a KILT claim, from creation until verification. You'll create a claim as a <span class="label-role claimer">claimer</span>, attest it as an <span class="label-role attester">attester</span> and verify it as a <span class="label-role verifier">verifier</span>.

✔ Use the KILT SDK to write onto and read from the KILT blockchain.

🚧 Since there is no faucet for now, you have to request tokens from us directly ([element](https://matrix.to/#/%23kilt-general:matrix.org), [discord](https://discord.gg/hX4pc8rdHS))

Ready? Let's go!

👉 [Step 0: Setup](./01-setup.md)
