docs/participate/01_Staking/04_unlock_unstaked.md, before:

---
id: unlock-unstaked
title: How to unlock unstaked
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Before you can unlock your previously staked tokens, you have to wait 7 days (in block time).

![](/img/chain/parachainStaking-unlockUnstaked.png)

<Tabs
  groupId="collator-delegator"
  defaultValue="Collator"
>
<TabItem value="Collator" label="Collator">

1. Select any account with enough balance to cover the transaction fee which is around 0.005 KILT (the *using the selected account* field)
2. Select the appropriate extrinsic: `parachainStaking -> unlockUnstaked(target)`
3. Select the `Id` option (the *MultiAddress (LookupSource) field*)
4. Select your collator's KILT address (the *Id: AccountId* field)
5. Sign and submit the extrinsic

:::info
You have unstaked tokens if you have either reduced your stake without increasing it for (at least) same amount afterwards or executing your exit request.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Delegator" label="Delegator">

1. Select any account with enough balance to cover the transaction fee which is around 0.005 KILT (the *using the selected account* field)
2. Select the appropriate extrinsic: `parachainStaking -> unlockUnstaked(target)`
3. Select the `Id` option (the *MultiAddress (LookupSource) field*)
4. Select your delegator's KILT address (the *Id: AccountId* field)
5. Sign and submit the extrinsic

:::info
Even if you have not exited, reduced or removed your delegation, you can still have unstaked tokens.
This can happen if either of the following events occurred
* You were kicked out of your collator candidate's delegation pool because all current delegators have a higher stake
* Your collator candidate intentionally left the collator pool.
:::
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

feat: normalize staking tx disclaimer

docs/participate/01_Staking/04_unlock_unstaked.md, after:

---
id: unlock-unstaked
title: How to unlock unstaked
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import StakingTxDisclaimer from './_disclaimer_staking_tx.md';

Before you can unlock your previously staked tokens, you have to wait 7 days (in block time).

<StakingTxDisclaimer />

![](/img/chain/parachainStaking-unlockUnstaked.png)

<Tabs
  groupId="collator-delegator"
  defaultValue="Collator"
>
<TabItem value="Collator" label="Collator">

1. Select any account with enough balance to cover the transaction fee which is around 0.005 KILT (the *using the selected account* field)
2. Select the appropriate extrinsic: `parachainStaking -> unlockUnstaked(target)`
3. Select the `Id` option (the *MultiAddress (LookupSource) field*)
4. Select your collator's KILT address (the *Id: AccountId* field)
5. Sign and submit the extrinsic (the *Submit Transaction* button)

:::info
You have unstaked tokens if you have either reduced your stake without increasing it for (at least) same amount afterwards or executing your exit request.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Delegator" label="Delegator">

1. Select any account with enough balance to cover the transaction fee which is around 0.005 KILT (the *using the selected account* field)
2. Select the appropriate extrinsic: `parachainStaking -> unlockUnstaked(target)`
3. Select the `Id` option (the *MultiAddress (LookupSource) field*)
4. Select your delegator's KILT address (the *Id: AccountId* field)
5. Sign and submit the extrinsic (the *Submit Transaction* button)

:::info
Even if you have not exited, reduced or removed your delegation, you can still have unstaked tokens.
This can happen if either of the following events occurred
* You were kicked out of your collator candidate's delegation pool because all current delegators have a higher stake
* Your collator candidate intentionally left the collator pool.
:::
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
