docs/develop/03_workshop/05_claimer/01_did.md, before:

---
id: did
title: DID
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import TsJsBlock from '@site/src/components/TsJsBlock';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import GenerateKeypairs from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/workshop/claimer/generateKeypairs.ts';
import GenerateLightDid from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/workshop/claimer/generateLightDid.ts';

Time to make a light DID using the previously created account for the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span>.
Since a light DID is not registered on the blockchain, you don't need funds for creating one.
Remember light DIDs can:

- Sign attestation requests and presentation with the authentication keys
- Encrypt messages with the encryption keys

Take a look at our [DID documentation](../../../develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/01_dids/01_light_did_creation.md) to learn more about DIDs and the difference between their light and full versions.

## Generate Keys

Similar to the Attester, the Claimer must set up the DID keys.

<TsJsBlock fileName="claimer/generateKeypairs">
  {GenerateKeypairs}
</TsJsBlock>

The Claimer only needs an authentication key and an encryption key.
Here the keys are both derived from the same seed, but they could also have two different seeds.

## Generate Light DID

Once our `keypairs` are generated we can create our light DID.
Because it's off-chain we can just create the DID object every time, we don't need to resolve them before using it.
But we'll still accept the `mnemonic` and prompt to save it in `.env` for our reference.

<TsJsBlock fileName="claimer/generateLightDid">
  {GenerateLightDid}
</TsJsBlock>

After everything is initialized, we create a mnemonic that will be used to create the light DID.
As you may have noticed the Claimer doesn't have an `account`.
The Claimer doesn't need to hold funds and also doesn't need a blockchain account.

## Run

<Tabs groupId="ts-js-choice">
  <TabItem value='ts' label='Typescript' default>

  ```bash
  yarn ts-node ./claimer/generateLightDid.ts
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value='js' label='Javascript' default>

  ```bash
  node ./claimer/generateLightDid.js
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Your output will provide you with `CLAIMER_DID_MNEMONIC`.
Be sure to save it in your `.env` file, it should now look similar to this.

```env title=".env"
WSS_ADDRESS=wss://peregrine.kilt.io

ATTESTER_ACCOUNT_MNEMONIC="warrior icon use cry...
ATTESTER_ACCOUNT_ADDRESS=4ohMvUHsyeDhMVZF...
ATTESTER_DID_MNEMONIC="beyond large galaxy...

CLAIMER_DID_MNEMONIC="danger awkward wrestle snap...
```

Well done - You've successfully generated a light DID!

Commit message:

Workshop claimer section (#286)
* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Update docs/develop/03_workshop/05_claimer/index.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/develop/03_workshop/05_claimer/02_request.md

Co-authored-by: Skedley <48058984+Dudleyneedham@users.noreply.github.com>

* Updates from review

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

---------

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>
Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Skedley <48058984+Dudleyneedham@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/develop/03_workshop/05_claimer/01_did.md, after:

---
id: did
title: DID
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import TsJsBlock from '@site/src/components/TsJsBlock';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import GenerateKeypairs from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/workshop/claimer/generateKeypairs.ts';
import GenerateLightDid from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/workshop/claimer/generateLightDid.ts';

This section covers creating a light DID using the account you created for the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span>.

Since a light DID is not registered on the blockchain, you don't need funds to create one.

:::info

Remember, light DIDs can do the following:

- Sign attestation requests and presentation with the authentication keys
- Encrypt messages with the encryption keys

Read the [DID documentation](../../../develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/01_dids/01_light_did_creation.md) to learn more about DIDs and the difference between their light and full versions.

:::

## Generate Keys

Like the Attester, the Claimer must also set up the DID keys.

<TsJsBlock fileName="claimer/generateKeypairs">
  {GenerateKeypairs}
</TsJsBlock>

The code above is similar to the `generateKeyAgreement` function used in the Attester section but simpler, as the Claimer only needs an authentication key and an encryption key.

Both the keys are derived from the same seed, but they could also have two different seeds.

## Generate Light DID

With the `keypairs` generated, you can create the light DID.
Because it's off-chain you can create the DID object every time, but you still need to save the mnemonic to the `.env` file with a different variable name.

<TsJsBlock fileName="claimer/generateLightDid">
  {GenerateLightDid}
</TsJsBlock>

The Claimer doesn't have an `account`, as the Claimer doesn't need to hold funds.

The `generateKeypairs` function takes the `mnemonic` value and generates the `authentication` and `keyAgreement` keys.

The `createLightDidDocument` method takes these two values and generates the light DID.

## Run

<Tabs groupId="ts-js-choice">
  <TabItem value='ts' label='Typescript' default>

  ```bash
  yarn ts-node ./claimer/generateLightDid.ts
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value='js' label='Javascript' default>

  ```bash
  node ./claimer/generateLightDid.js
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Well done - You successfully generated a light DID!
