docs/development/01-contribution.md, before:

---
id: contribution
title: Contribution guidelines
---

As a decentralized network, KILT depends on the support of its community. There are many ways to contribute to KILT protocol and the products and services built on it. 

If you are interested in contributing but unsure how to begin, start in our [Clan KILT Discord](https://discord.gg/7uyfMXh6AT) channel. The active developers, which include the team that originally developed KILT, and the wider KILT community are engaged there, and can:

- provide feedback on proposals or ideas
- discuss possible use-cases or feature requests
- make suggestions for non-technical contributions, including events, writing, or business models
- answer questions about the protocol, services and products.

## Feature Requests

For the integrity of the protocol, requesting a feature requires approval from KILT governance. The request should follow the guidelines below:

 - Begin a discussion with the community to ensure that they agree that it adds value to the KILT protocol in a meaningful way, supporting its goals
 - Give your proposal a clear title
 - Open an issue on the corresponding repository
 - Provide a written outline of the feature request for discussion

## Feature Proposals

A proposal must be made before moving ahead, see above. At the end of the discussion, the proposal needs the approval of the community, KILT Technical Committee, governance, or relevant project team (depending on the subject) to progress to the next stage. If approved, acceptable deliverables will be agreed with the proposer, and the active developers or appropriate teams can start working on the proposal deliverables.

## Bug Reports

We try our best, but bugs are an everyday reality with all software and are bound to happen. We can't fix bugs we don't notice, so your input if you spot something gives us the best possibility to keep the project running smoothly and securely.

If you are unsure that a bug is a bug, it is best to open an issue and report it anyway. The active developers will evaluate it and help to figure out the issue.

It is helpful to check if a report has already been filed in the related project. Search the issues board for possible phrases that match the description of the bug. It's possible you may not find an issue, but it's better to file a duplicated bug than not report one.

Once you begin reporting the bug, write a descriptive title so that if others find the same issue they can either add to your findings or know that the bug has already been reported. A bug report should be as detailed as possible, including steps to reproduce, screenshots, error reports or code snippets. The more details you provide, the easier it is to fix the issue.

The following section is inspired by Rust langs [Bug Report](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/contributing.html#bug-reports) contribution guide.

## Pull Requests

Pull Requests (PR) are an integral part of contributions to change KILT. GitHub itself has some [excellent documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) on using the Pull Request feature. KILT uses the "[fork and pull](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models)" model described here, where contributors push changes to their personal fork and create pull requests to bring those changes into the source repository.

Before starting a PR, it’s best to contact other active developers and discuss the proposed changes. Open an issue or directly contact some of the devs on  [Discord](https://discord.gg/7uyfMXh6AT) to begin discussing and making the proposal. Once approved, contributors can open a PR for review. The PR will be reviewed and, if accepted, merge it into the corresponding repository.

The following section is inspired by Rust langs [Bug Report](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/contributing.html#bug-reports) contribution guide.

Commit message:

feat: altering some details about the contribution guide

docs/development/01-contribution.md, after:

---
id: contribution
title: Contribution guidelines
---
As a decentralized network, KILT depends on the support of its community. There are many ways to contribute to KILT protocol and the products and services built on it. 

If you are interested in contributing but unsure how to begin, start in our [Clan KILT Discord](https://discord.gg/7uyfMXh6AT) channel. The developers active there, which include the team that originally developed KILT, and the wider KILT community can:

- Provide feedback on proposals or ideas
- Discuss possible use-cases or feature requests
- Make suggestions for non-technical contributions, including events, writing, or business models
- Answer questions about the protocol, services and products.

## Feature Requests 

A feature request may be used to change KILT and its services by adding, removing or altering features within the scope of KILT Protocol.

A feature request is a meaningful way to contribute from anyone following the guidelines below:

 - Begin a discussion with the community to ensure that they agree that it adds to the KILT protocol in a meaningful way, supporting its goals. 
 - Open an issue on the corresponding repository
 - Give your request a clear title
 - Provide a written outline of the feature request for discussion

After a discussion, a request may move further and requires implementation. If this is the case and needs implementation from a team that may require a treasure proposal: Check out the treasury proposals section.

## Treasury Proposals

A treasury proposal is a request to spend funds within the treasure pool. Usually, the proposals have altered or enhanced KILT to better the protocol in a meaningful way. The proposal should begin with a proposal with a clear title and a written outline of the idea and a discussion about implementation or deliverables as outlined above for feature requests.

In addition you should:

- Explain any deliverables that have been achieved
- Outline what needs to be done for the proposal to be completed

At the end of the discussion the community (including for example the KILT Technical Committee, governance, or relevant project team ) should be in favour for the proposal to have a chance to be approved by governance. See the guide here to create a proposal - https://www.kilt.io/treasury/create-a-proposal/ 

Once the governance has approved the treasury spend, deliverables have been included in  the proposal.

## Bug Reports

We try our best, but bugs are an everyday reality with all software and are bound to happen. We can't fix bugs we don't notice, so your input if you spot something gives us the best possibility to keep the project running smoothly and securely.

If you are unsure that a bug is a bug, it is best to open an issue and report it anyway. The active developers will evaluate it and help to figure out the issue.

It is helpful to check if a report has already been filed in the related project. Search the issues board for possible phrases that match the description of the bug. It's possible you may not find an issue, but it's better to file a duplicated bug than not report one.

Once you begin reporting the bug, write a descriptive title so that if others find the same issue they can either add to your findings or know that the bug has already been reported. A bug report should be as detailed as possible, including steps to reproduce, screenshots, error reports or code snippets. The more details you provide, the easier it is to fix the issue.

The following section is inspired by Rust langs [Bug Report](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/contributing.html#bug-reports) contribution guide.

## Pull Requests

Pull Requests (PR) are an integral part of contributions to change KILT. GitHub itself has some [excellent documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) on using the Pull Request feature. KILT uses the "[fork and pull](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models)" model described here, where contributors push changes to their personal fork and create pull requests to bring those changes into the source repository.

Before starting a PR, it’s best to contact other active developers and discuss the proposed changes. Open an issue or directly contact some of the devs on  [Discord](https://discord.gg/7uyfMXh6AT) to begin discussing and making the proposal. Once approved, contributors can open a PR for review. The PR will be reviewed and, if accepted, merge it into the corresponding repository.

The following section is inspired by Rust langs [Bug Report](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/contributing.html#bug-reports) contribution guide.
