sdk/02_tutorial/01_welcome.md, before:

---
id: welcome
title: 👋🏻 Welcome
---

<!-- When updating this version also update 02_setup.md! -->
<!-- TODO: Turn into variable -->
<!-- TODO: Is the Quickstart a dependency? -->
SDK version **0.35.0**.

:::info What you can expect to learn

📦 **Topics**: [KILT SDK](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sdk-js) essentials, basic credential workflow.
This includes creating a CType and a claim, attesting a claim, and finally verifying the credential.

⏳ **Duration**: 15-45 minutes.

🤓 **Prerequisites**:

- Basic JavaScript or TypeScript knowledge.
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) installed. Any stable LTS version >= 16.0.

❓ **Questions?** Join our [developer community channel](https://discord.gg/hX4pc8rdHS)!

:::

## Welcome, curious mind!

In this tutorial, you will:

✔ Get familiar with the essential concepts in KILT: accounts, DIDs, CTypes, claims, credentials, and more.

✔ Use the KILT SDK to implement the basic flow of a KILT claim, from creation until verification.
You'll create a claim as a <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span>, attest it as an <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> and verify it as a <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span>.

✔ Use the KILT SDK to write onto and read from the KILT blockchain.

Ready? Let's go!

Commit message:

Update workshop to v1 of SDK (#330)
* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/01_welcome.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/03_overview.md

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/07_verification.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/05_issuer/index.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/05_issuer/03_issue_credential.md

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Changes from review

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Changes from review

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/05_issuer/03_issue_credential.md

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/07_verification.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/07_verification.md

---------

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>
Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

sdk/02_tutorial/01_welcome.md, after:

---
id: welcome
title: 👋🏻 Welcome
---

<!-- When updating this version also update 02_setup.md! -->
<!-- TODO: Turn into variable -->
<!-- TODO: Is the Quickstart a dependency? -->
SDK version **1.x**.

:::info What you can expect to learn

📦 **Topics**: [KILT SDK](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/sdk-js) essentials, basic credential workflow.
This includes creating a CType and a claim, attesting a claim, and finally verifying the credential.

⏳ **Duration**: 15-45 minutes.

🤓 **Prerequisites**:

- Basic JavaScript or TypeScript knowledge.
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) installed. Any stable LTS version >= 16.0.

❓ **Questions?** Join the [developer community channel](https://discord.gg/hX4pc8rdHS)!

:::

## Welcome, curious mind!

In this tutorial, you will:

✔ Get familiar with the essential concepts in KILT: accounts, DIDs, CTypes, claims, credentials, and more.
✔ Use the KILT SDK to implement the basic flow of a KILT claim, from creation until verification.

    You'll create a Credential as an <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span>, produce a Credential Presentation as a <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span>, and verify it as a <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span>.

✔ Use the KILT SDK to write onto and read from the KILT blockchain.

Ready? Let's go!
