sdk/02_tutorial/03_overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
title: 👓 Overview
---

This tutorial runs through the full story of a claim.

It involves three actors which work together to create **distributed trust**:

-   A <span className="label-role claimer">Holder</span> is an actor who claims to possess certain credentials, abilities, or other attributes.
-   An <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> is an actor that verifies the claims of a <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span>.
-   A <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> is an actor that asks for proof of a claim.

For the workshop, you play all three roles.

In a real-world use case, these actors would be different people and services, which this workshop simulates using different folders for each service.
Each actor typically performs different roles:

-   Both the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> and the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> have to interact with the KILT blockchain.
-   But only the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> is required to own KILTs since they have to pay for storing the attestation on chain.
-   The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> only needs to query the KILT blockchain to ensure that the attestation is still valid and wasn't revoked.
-   The <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> isn't required to query the blockchain, but they might do so to check whether their credential is still valid or if the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> has revoked it in the meantime.

## Request an attestation

The <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> has to register their DID on chain and needs KILT coins.

After both the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> and the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> have set up their identities, the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> can start the attestation process by requesting an attestation from the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span>.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Holder
actor A as Issuer
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    C->>+C: Create credential from provided claims
    C->>+A: Transmit credential to request attestation
    A->>A: Validate received attributes
    A->>+B: Store attestation
    B-->>-A: Attestation hash
    A-->>-C: Attestation Hash
```

1. The <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> prepares the Credential to attest, along with some proof, for example, a bank statement and ID.
2. They send the document to the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> for attestation.
3. Upon receiving the credential, the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> decides whether the claim is valid by examining the proofs. If the <span className="label-role claimer">Issuer</span> trusts the claim, they store the attestation document's hash value on the chain, which is a non-functional copy of the document.
4. The <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> sends this hash value to the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span>, which represents verification of a document.

## Verify an Attestation

The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> requests a presentation from the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> for a specific required CType. Without a specific CType, the presentation is meaningless.

<!-- TODO: Find out more link… -->

A presentation is derived from a credential and doesn't need to contain all attributes.

After the request, the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> can choose to hide elements of their credentials that aren't relevant to the claim.
For example, hide their address from their ID if the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> is only interested in their age.

:::info

A later step in the workshop [explains CTypes in more detail](./04_issuer/03_ctype.md).

:::

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Holder
actor V as Issues
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    V->>+C: Request presentation for CType
    C->>C: Derive a presentation from a credential
    C-->>-V: submit presentation
    V->>B: check validity of presentation
```

### Example: Requesting a travel visa

To take an example of applying for a travel visa:

1. The Embassy (analogous to the Issuer) asks a traveler (analogous to the Holder) for a specific document or CType. For example, it could be a bank statement. The Embassy asks, "Provide proof of financial stability, and we'll grant you a visa." The traveler gets the bank statement from their bank, gets it attested by the bank (The Issuer), and prepares the document.
2. The document is ready, but the Embassy doesn't need all the information in the document. The embassy wants to know if a traveler has sufficient funds, but they don't need to know any transaction details. The traveler redacts or hides these details while presenting.
3. The traveler presents the document to the embassy.
4. The embassy verified the document's authenticity by comparing its hash value with the one on their internal system or a decentralized ledger.
5. Since they trust the Issuer (in this case, the bank that attested the bank statement), they approved the visa application.

:::tip Summary

As you can see, the Embassy didn't need to trust the Holder directly in this system.
They trust the Holder, whom they had previously worked with, or respect due to their position.
And with that trust, they grant the visa with no knowledge of what the Holder has used the credential for.
Even though this process emerged due to the trust in the Issuer, the Issuer wasn't involved in the second stage, so they were unaware of it.
Privacy was achieved with distributed trust.

:::

Commit message:

Update workshop to v1 of SDK (#330)
* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Draft

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/01_welcome.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/03_overview.md

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/07_verification.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/05_issuer/index.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/05_issuer/03_issue_credential.md

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Changes from review

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Changes from review

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/05_issuer/03_issue_credential.md

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/06_holder/02_create_presentation.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/07_verification.md

Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update sdk/02_tutorial/07_verification.md

---------

Signed-off-by: Chris Chinchilla <chris@kilt.io>
Co-authored-by: Raphael Flechtner <39338561+rflechtner@users.noreply.github.com>

sdk/02_tutorial/03_overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
title: 👓 Overview
---

This tutorial runs through the full story of a claim.

It involves four roles which work together to create **distributed trust**:

-   A <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> claims to possess certain credentials, abilities, or other attributes.
-   An <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> verifies the claims of a <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span>.
-   A <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> asks for proof of a claim.
-   <span className="label-role submitter">Submitter</span> accounts handles and pays for submitting transactions.

In a real-world use case, these roles could be different people and services, which this workshop simulates using different folders and functions for each service or actor.

Each actor typically performs different roles:

-   Both the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> and the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> have to interact with the KILT blockchain.
-   Only the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> has to own KILTs since they have to pay for storing the attestation on chain.
-   The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> only needs to query the KILT blockchain to check that the attestation is still valid and wasn't revoked.
-   The <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> isn't required to query the blockchain, but they might do so to check whether their credential is still valid or if the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> has revoked it in the meantime.

## Issue a credential

The <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> has to register their DID on chain and needs KILT coins.

After both the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> and the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> have set up their identities, the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> can start the attestation process by requesting an attestation from the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span>.

<!-- TODO: Correct diagrams -->

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Holder
actor A as Issuer
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    C->>+C: Create credential from provided claims
    C->>+A: Transmit credential to request verification
    A->>A: Validate received attributes
    A->>+B: Store attestation of verification
    B-->>-A: Attestation hash
    A-->>-C: Attestation Hash
```

1. The <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> prepares the Credential to verify, along with some proof, for example, a bank statement and ID.
2. They send the document to the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> for verification.
3. Upon receiving the credential, the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> decides whether the claim is valid by examining the proofs. If the <span className="label-role claimer">Issuer</span> trusts the claim, they store the attestation document's hash value on the chain, which is a non-functional copy of the document.
4. The <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> sends this hash value to the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span>, which represents verification of a document.

## Create a presentation

The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> requests a presentation from the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> for a specific required CType. Without a specific CType, the presentation is meaningless.

A presentation is derived from a credential and doesn't need to contain all attributes.

After the request, the <span className="label-role holder">Holder</span> can choose to hide elements of their credentials that aren't relevant to the claim.
For example, hide their address from their ID if the <span className="label-role issuer">Issuer</span> is only interested in their age.

:::info

A later step in the workshop [explains CTypes in more detail](./04_issuer/03_ctype.md).

:::

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Holder
actor V as Issues
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    V->>+C: Request presentation for CType
    C->>C: Derive a presentation from a credential
    C-->>-V: submit presentation
    V->>B: check validity of presentation
```

<!-- TODO: verify? -->

### Example: Requesting a travel visa

To take an example of applying for a travel visa:

1. The Embassy (analogous to the Issuer) asks a traveler (analogous to the Holder) for a specific document or CType. For example, it could be a bank statement. The Embassy asks, "Provide proof of financial stability, and we'll grant you a visa." The traveler gets the bank statement from their bank, gets it attested by the bank (The Issuer), and prepares the document.
2. The document is ready, but the Embassy doesn't need all the information in the document. The embassy wants to know if a traveler has sufficient funds, but they don't need to know any transaction details. The traveler redacts or hides these details while presenting.
3. The traveler presents the document to the embassy.
4. The embassy verified the document's authenticity by comparing its hash value with the one on their internal system or a decentralized ledger.
5. Since they trust the Issuer (in this case, the bank that attested the bank statement), they approved the visa application.

:::tip Summary

As you can see, the Embassy didn't need to trust the Holder directly in this system.
They trust the Holder, whom they had previously worked with, or respect due to their position.
And with that trust, they grant the visa with no knowledge of what the Holder has used the credential for.
Even though this process emerged due to the trust in the Issuer, the Issuer wasn't involved in the second stage, so they were unaware of it.
Privacy was achieved with distributed trust.

:::
