docs/develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/04_claiming/01_ctype_creation.md, before:

---
id: ctype-creation
title: Create a CType
---

import TsJsBlock from '@site/src/components/TsJsBlock';

import CreateCType from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/claiming/01_create_ctype.ts';
import FetchCType from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/claiming/02_fetch_ctype.ts';

The creation of a CType in KILT involves two steps: the definition of a CType and the anchoring of its hash on the KILT blockchain.

:::info
The creator of a CType is required to have a full DID with an attestation key.
To see how to manage DIDs, please refer to the [DID section](../01_dids/03_full_did_update.md).
:::

The following snippets show how to create a CType:

<TsJsBlock>
  {CreateCType}
</TsJsBlock>

:::note
The creation of a new CType requires the CType hash to be unique.
Before writing a new CType, Attesters should check whether there is already an existing CType which matches their requirements.
Visit our [CType index repository](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/ctype-index) for a non-exhaustive list of existing CTypes.
:::

## Retrieve a CType from its ID

As of the [KILT runtime 1.9.0][kilt-runtime-1.9.0], CTypes can be queried directly from any KILT archive nodes.

This is possible because the creation of a new CType now writes on chain its creation block number, that can be used as a "pointer" to query the full block content, including its list of transactions.

The SDK makes it easy to use this feature:

<TsJsBlock>
  {FetchCType}
</TsJsBlock>

[kilt-runtime-1.9.0]: https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-node/releases/tag/1.9.0

Commit message:

Add content to CType cookbook

docs/develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/04_claiming/01_ctype_creation.md, after:

---
id: ctype-creation
title: Create a CType
---

import TsJsBlock from '@site/src/components/TsJsBlock';

import CreateCType from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/claiming/01_create_ctype.ts';
import FetchCType from '!!raw-loader!@site/code_examples/sdk_examples/src/core_features/claiming/02_fetch_ctype.ts';

Every KILT credential has to conform to a CType.
A CType describes which properties a credential has and what type these properties have.
CTypes must be registered on the Spiritnet blockchain.
To learn more about the CTypes, see the [CType concept section](../../../../concepts/05_credentials/02_ctypes.md)

The creation of a CType in KILT involves two steps: the definition of a CType and the anchoring of its hash on the KILT blockchain.

:::info DID required
The creator of a CType is required to have a full DID with an attestation key.
To see how to manage DIDs, please refer to the [DID section](../01_dids/03_full_did_update.md).
:::

:::info CTypes are unique
The creation of a new CType requires the CType hash to be unique.
Before writing a new CType, Attesters should check whether there is already an existing CType which matches their requirements.

Visit our [CType index repository](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/ctype-index) for a non-exhaustive list of existing CTypes.
:::

The following snippets show how to create a CType:

<TsJsBlock>
  {CreateCType}
</TsJsBlock>


## Retrieve a CType from its ID

CTypes can be queried directly from any KILT archive nodes.
This is possible because the CType is written onchain when they are registered.

The SDK makes it easy to use this feature:

<TsJsBlock>
  {FetchCType}
</TsJsBlock>
