docs/develop/03_workshop/03_overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
title: 👓 Overview
---

In this tutorial, we'll run through the full story of a claim.

To do so, three actors will be involved: a <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span>, an <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> and a <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span>.
You'll be playing all three roles.
In the real world, these actors would be running different services, so we set up different folders to mimic this separation.

Both the <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> and the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> have to interact with the KILT blockchain.
But only the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> is required to own KILTs since they have to pay for storing attestation on chain.
The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> only needs to query the KILT blockchain to ensure that the attestation is still valid and was not revoked.
The <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> is not required to query the blockchain, but they might do so to check whether their Credential is still valid or the Attester has revoked it in the meantime.

## Request an Attestation

Before the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> can receive an attestation, they need to generate a [light DID](../01_sdk/02_cookbook/01_dids/01_light_did_creation.md), which they can do completely off-chain.
The <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> has to register their DID on chain and therefore needs KILT coins.

After both the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> as well as the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> have set up their identities, the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> can start the attestation process by requesting an attestation from the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span>.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Claimer
actor A as Attester
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    C->>+C: Setup request for attestation
    C->>+A: Transmit request for attestation
    A->>A: Validate received attributes
    A->>+B: Store attestation
    B-->>-A: Attestation hash
    A-->>-C: Attestation Hash
    C->>C: Build Credential
```

## Verify an Attestation

The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> requests a presentation from the  <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> for a specific CType.
Without a specific CType, the presentation is meaningless.
Thus, it is important to require this.
We will [explain CTypes in more detail](attester/ctype) in a later chapter.
A presentation is derived from a Credential and does not need to contain all attributes.
A <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> could choose to hide their address from their passport if the <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> is only interested in their age.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Claimer
actor V as Verifier
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    V->>+C: Request presentation for CType
    C->>C: Derive a presentation from a Credential
    C-->>-V: submit presentation
    V->>B: check validity of presentation
```

Commit message:

chore: update snippets to SDK v0.29.0-48. (#140)
* Update claiming and did sections

* Workshop compiling

* Workshop test working

* Style fix for workshop

* Worshop docs adjusted

* Workshop fixes

* Last workshop fixes

* Working workshop!

* Workshop final final fixes

* Core features updated

* Parallelize tests for core features

* Add step to verify credential attestation

* Styling

* Update SDK version for viteJS config

* Snippets generation scripts working fine

* Remove unneded IS_FINALIZED

* Remove unnecessary Kilt.init()

* Some PR comments

* Remove most of .then() callbacks

* Implicit key type when generating from Keyring

* Use IIFE everywhere

* Fix faucet account type issue

* Lint fixes

* Fixes

docs/develop/03_workshop/03_overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
title: 👓 Overview
---

In this tutorial, we'll run through the full story of a claim.

To do so, three actors will be involved: a <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span>, an <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> and a <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span>.
You'll be playing all three roles.
In the real world, these actors would be running different services, so we set up different folders to mimic this separation.

Both the <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> and the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> have to interact with the KILT blockchain.
But only the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> is required to own KILTs since they have to pay for storing attestation on chain.
The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> only needs to query the KILT blockchain to ensure that the attestation is still valid and was not revoked.
The <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> is not required to query the blockchain, but they might do so to check whether their Credential is still valid or the Attester has revoked it in the meantime.

## Request an Attestation

Before the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> can attest a credential, they need to generate a [light DID](../01_sdk/02_cookbook/01_dids/01_light_did_creation.md), which they can do completely off-chain.
The <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> has to register their DID on chain and therefore needs KILT coins.

After both the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span> as well as the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> have set up their identities, the <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> can start the attestation process by requesting an attestation from the <span className="label-role attester">Attester</span>.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Claimer
actor A as Attester
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    C->>+C: Create credential from provided claims
    C->>+A: Transmit credential to request attestation
    A->>A: Validate received attributes
    A->>+B: Store attestation
    B-->>-A: Attestation hash
    A-->>-C: Attestation Hash
```

## Verify an Attestation

The <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> requests a presentation from the  <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> for a specific CType.
Without a specific CType, the presentation is meaningless.
Thus, it is important to require this.
We will [explain CTypes in more detail](attester/ctype) in a later chapter.
A presentation is derived from a Credential and does not need to contain all attributes.
A <span className="label-role claimer">Claimer</span> could choose to hide their address from their passport if the <span className="label-role verifier">Verifier</span> is only interested in their age.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
actor C as Claimer
actor V as Verifier
participant B as KILT Blockchain
    V->>+C: Request presentation for CType
    C->>C: Derive a presentation from a Credential
    C-->>-V: submit presentation
    V->>B: check validity of presentation
```
