---
id: opendid_service
title: Run OpenDID Service
---

<!-- TODO: Overview and steps -->

## Configuration

Running the OpenDID service requires some configuration and a KILT DID.
The DID establishes a secure session with an identity wallet using a key agreement key of type `X25519KeyAgreementKey2019` included in the DID Document generated by the setup container.

OpenDID serves a [well-known DID configuration](https://identity.foundation/.well-known/resources/did-configuration/), which the identity wallet uses to ensure that the domain is linked to the specified DID.

### Run setup container

Before running the `opendid-setup` container, set two environment variables:

1. `SEED` to provide an account with funds (minimum of 3 KILT) for the DID generation.

    ```bash
    export SEED="dont try this seed its completely made up for this nice example"
    ```

2. `ENDPOINT`

    Set to "spiritnet" if the account is on the spiritnet production network.

    ```bash
    export ENDPOINT="spiritnet"
    ```

    Set to "peregrine" if the account is on the peregrine test network.

    ```bash
    export ENDPOINT="peregrine"
    ```

    Then run the setup with the following command:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm -it -e "ENDPOINT=${ENDPOINT}" -v $(pwd):/data docker.io/kiltprotocol/opendid-setup:latest "${SEED}"
    ```

The command generates a set of new mnemonics and then derives a DID from them and generates multiple files into the current directory:

1. `config.yaml` The configuration file used by the OpenDID service.
2. `did-secrets.json` This file contains the public and secret keys in the DID Document.

    :::warning
    Keep a secure backup of this file as it contains all the secret keys.
    :::

3. `did-document.json` contains the DID Document generated by this setup.

    :::danger
    You only need the `config.yaml` to run the OpenDID service.
    This file includes the generated mnemonic and secret keys and you should protect it from unauthorized access.
    :::

The container generates sensible defaults in the `config.yaml` file, but here are some values you might want to change:

-   Set `production` to true, this only allows secure connections.
-   Set the `WellKnownDid` > `origin`, which should match the host running the OpenDID service.
-   Set the keys used for JWT issuance in the `jwt` section.
-   The `client` section, including:

    -   The client ID as a key (The default is: `example-client`).
    -   The `requirements` section, including:
    -   What CTypes are required for authentication.
    -   The trusted attesters as an address (The default is for the [SocialKYC attester](https://socialkyc.io/)).

        :::note info

        The generated default `config.yaml` requires an [email credential](https://test.ctypehub.galaniprojects.de/ctype/kilt:ctype:0x3291bb126e33b4862d421bfaa1d2f272e6cdfc4f96658988fbcffea8914bd9ac) issued by an attester.

        :::

    -   What `redirect_url`s the service accepts (The default is `http://localhost:1606/callback.html` for the demo project).
    -   The `clientSecret` is optional but recommended. If you use the authorization code flow, the `token` endpoint requires it.

## Run the service

When you've made changes to the `config.yaml` file, you can run the OpenDID service.

1. Specify the runtime through the `RUNTIME` environment variable:

    Set to `"spiritnet"` for production KILT

    ```bash
    export RUNTIME="spiritnet"
    ```

    Set to `"peregrine"` for the KILT test net.

    ```bash
    export RUNTIME="peregrine"
    ```

2. Run the `docker.io/kiltprotocol/opendid` docker image.

    ```bash
    docker run -d --rm \
        -v $(pwd)/config.yaml:/app/config.yaml \
        -v $(pwd)/checks:/app/checks \
        -e "RUNTIME=${RUNTIME}" \
        -p 3001:3001 \
        docker.io/kiltprotocol/opendid:latest
    ```

3. Open the login page at _http://localhost:3001_.

## Next steps

With configuration in place and a service running, next you need to [integrate OpenDID into an application](./04_integrate_opendid.md) so that a user can use the login page.
